doc/source/install/install-debian.rst, before:

================================
Install and configure for Debian
================================

This section describes how to install and configure the dashboard
on the controller node.

The only core service required by the dashboard is the Identity service.
You can use the dashboard in combination with other services, such as
Image service, Compute, and Networking. You can also use the dashboard
in environments with stand-alone services such as Object Storage.

.. note::

   This section assumes proper installation, configuration, and operation
   of the Identity service using the Apache HTTP server and Memcached
   service.

Install and configure components
--------------------------------

.. include:: note_configuration_vary_by_distribution.txt





1. Install the packages:

   .. code-block:: console

      # apt install openstack-dashboard-apache

   .. end

2. Respond to prompts for web server configuration.

   .. note::

      The automatic configuration process generates a self-signed
      SSL certificate. Consider obtaining an official certificate
      for production environments.

   .. note::

      There are two modes of installation. One using ``/horizon`` as the URL,
      keeping your default vhost and only adding an Alias directive: this is
      the default. The other mode will remove the default Apache vhost and install
      the dashboard on the webroot. It was the only available option
      before the Liberty release. If you prefer to set the Apache configuration
      manually,  install the ``openstack-dashboard`` package instead of
      ``openstack-dashboard-apache``.





3. Edit the
   ``/etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings.py``
   file and complete the following actions:

   * Configure the dashboard to use OpenStack services on the
     ``controller`` node:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_HOST = "controller"

     .. end

   * In the Dashboard configuration section, allow your hosts to access
     Dashboard:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        ALLOWED_HOSTS = ['one.example.com', 'two.example.com']

     .. end

     .. note::

        - Do not edit the ``ALLOWED_HOSTS`` parameter under the Ubuntu
          configuration section.
        - ``ALLOWED_HOSTS`` can also be ``['*']`` to accept all hosts. This
          may be useful for development work, but is potentially insecure
          and should not be used in production. See the
          `Django documentation
          <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/settings/#allowed-hosts>`_
          for further information.

   * Configure the ``memcached`` session storage service:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        SESSION_ENGINE = 'django.contrib.sessions.backends.cache'

        CACHES = {
            'default': {
                 'BACKEND': 'django.core.cache.backends.memcached.MemcachedCache',
                 'LOCATION': 'controller:11211',
            }
        }

     .. end

     .. note::

        Comment out any other session storage configuration.

   * Enable the Identity API version 3:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_URL = "http://%s/identity/v3" % OPENSTACK_HOST

     .. end

   * Enable support for domains:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_MULTIDOMAIN_SUPPORT = True

     .. end

   * Configure API versions:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_API_VERSIONS = {
            "identity": 3,
            "image": 2,
            "volume": 3,
        }

     .. end

   * Configure ``Default`` as the default domain for users that you create
     via the dashboard:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_DEFAULT_DOMAIN = "Default"

     .. end

   * Configure ``user`` as the default role for
     users that you create via the dashboard:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_DEFAULT_ROLE = "user"

     .. end

   * If you chose networking option 1, disable support for layer-3
     networking services:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_NEUTRON_NETWORK = {
            ...
            'enable_router': False,
            'enable_quotas': False,
            'enable_ipv6': False,
            'enable_distributed_router': False,
            'enable_ha_router': False,
            'enable_fip_topology_check': False,
        }

     .. end

   * Optionally, configure the time zone:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        TIME_ZONE = "TIME_ZONE"

     .. end

     Replace ``TIME_ZONE`` with an appropriate time zone identifier.
     For more information, see the `list of time zones
     <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones>`__.


Finalize installation
---------------------


* Reload the web server configuration:

  .. code-block:: console

     # service apache2 reload

  .. end

Commit message:

Add a Note Under Install and configure Section in documentation
This patch adds a note to use keystone port 5000 while configuring
horizon for all distros like ubuntu/debian/rdo/obs under the install
and configure section. Right now if a user tries to set up an OpenStack
env. manually using documentation [1], [2] leads to some confusion
because keystone documents suggest creating keystone endpoint at
http://controller:5000/v3/ rather than http://controller/v3/ while
horizon document consider keystone doesn't run at 5000 port updated
by [3].

Closes-Bug: #1910476
Closes-Bug: #1926096
Closes-Bug: #1950919
Closes-Bug: #1956437
Closes-Bug: #1892279
Closes-Bug: #1903320
Change-Id: I18d0d2105ea54ba02f8979ab7a15a75a0425b8c7

[1] https://docs.openstack.org/keystone/latest/install/keystone-install-ubuntu.html#install-and-configure-components
[2] https://docs.openstack.org/horizon/latest/install/install-ubuntu.html#install-and-configure-components
[3] https://review.opendev.org/c/openstack/horizon/+/697406

Change-Id: I537a963c9d955b8d7e21f0d05b0197588907419e
(cherry picked from commit 029de21c1190bb9d2e38063b62c689c1dbb8ef37)

doc/source/install/install-debian.rst, after:

================================
Install and configure for Debian
================================

This section describes how to install and configure the dashboard
on the controller node.

The only core service required by the dashboard is the Identity service.
You can use the dashboard in combination with other services, such as
Image service, Compute, and Networking. You can also use the dashboard
in environments with stand-alone services such as Object Storage.

.. note::

   This section assumes proper installation, configuration, and operation
   of the Identity service using the Apache HTTP server and Memcached
   service.

Install and configure components
--------------------------------

.. include:: note_configuration_vary_by_distribution.txt





1. Install the packages:

   .. code-block:: console

      # apt install openstack-dashboard-apache

   .. end

2. Respond to prompts for web server configuration.

   .. note::

      The automatic configuration process generates a self-signed
      SSL certificate. Consider obtaining an official certificate
      for production environments.

   .. note::

      There are two modes of installation. One using ``/horizon`` as the URL,
      keeping your default vhost and only adding an Alias directive: this is
      the default. The other mode will remove the default Apache vhost and install
      the dashboard on the webroot. It was the only available option
      before the Liberty release. If you prefer to set the Apache configuration
      manually,  install the ``openstack-dashboard`` package instead of
      ``openstack-dashboard-apache``.





3. Edit the
   ``/etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings.py``
   file and complete the following actions:

   * Configure the dashboard to use OpenStack services on the
     ``controller`` node:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_HOST = "controller"

     .. end

   * In the Dashboard configuration section, allow your hosts to access
     Dashboard:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        ALLOWED_HOSTS = ['one.example.com', 'two.example.com']

     .. end

     .. note::

        - Do not edit the ``ALLOWED_HOSTS`` parameter under the Ubuntu
          configuration section.
        - ``ALLOWED_HOSTS`` can also be ``['*']`` to accept all hosts. This
          may be useful for development work, but is potentially insecure
          and should not be used in production. See the
          `Django documentation
          <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/settings/#allowed-hosts>`_
          for further information.

   * Configure the ``memcached`` session storage service:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        SESSION_ENGINE = 'django.contrib.sessions.backends.cache'

        CACHES = {
            'default': {
                 'BACKEND': 'django.core.cache.backends.memcached.MemcachedCache',
                 'LOCATION': 'controller:11211',
            }
        }

     .. end

     .. note::

        Comment out any other session storage configuration.

   * Enable the Identity API version 3:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_URL = "http://%s/identity/v3" % OPENSTACK_HOST

     .. end

     .. note::

        In case your keystone run at 5000 port then you would mentioned
        keystone port here as well i.e.
        OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_URL = "http://%s:5000/identity/v3" % OPENSTACK_HOST

   * Enable support for domains:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_MULTIDOMAIN_SUPPORT = True

     .. end

   * Configure API versions:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_API_VERSIONS = {
            "identity": 3,
            "image": 2,
            "volume": 3,
        }

     .. end

   * Configure ``Default`` as the default domain for users that you create
     via the dashboard:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_DEFAULT_DOMAIN = "Default"

     .. end

   * Configure ``user`` as the default role for
     users that you create via the dashboard:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_DEFAULT_ROLE = "user"

     .. end

   * If you chose networking option 1, disable support for layer-3
     networking services:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_NEUTRON_NETWORK = {
            ...
            'enable_router': False,
            'enable_quotas': False,
            'enable_ipv6': False,
            'enable_distributed_router': False,
            'enable_ha_router': False,
            'enable_fip_topology_check': False,
        }

     .. end

   * Optionally, configure the time zone:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        TIME_ZONE = "TIME_ZONE"

     .. end

     Replace ``TIME_ZONE`` with an appropriate time zone identifier.
     For more information, see the `list of time zones
     <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones>`__.


Finalize installation
---------------------


* Reload the web server configuration:

  .. code-block:: console

     # service apache2 reload

  .. end
