doc/source/install/install-obs.rst, before:

============================================================
Install and configure for openSUSE and SUSE Linux Enterprise
============================================================

This section describes how to install and configure the dashboard
on the controller node.

The only core service required by the dashboard is the Identity service.
You can use the dashboard in combination with other services, such as
Image service, Compute, and Networking. You can also use the dashboard
in environments with stand-alone services such as Object Storage.

.. note::

   This section assumes proper installation, configuration, and operation
   of the Identity service using the Apache HTTP server and Memcached
   service.

Install and configure components
--------------------------------

.. include:: note_configuration_vary_by_distribution.txt


1. Install the packages:

   .. code-block:: console

      # zypper install openstack-dashboard

   .. end






2. Configure the web server:

   .. code-block:: console

      # cp /etc/apache2/conf.d/openstack-dashboard.conf.sample \
        /etc/apache2/conf.d/openstack-dashboard.conf
      # a2enmod rewrite

   .. end

3. Edit the
   ``/srv/www/openstack-dashboard/openstack_dashboard/local/local_settings.py``
   file and complete the following actions:

   * Configure the dashboard to use OpenStack services on the
     ``controller`` node:

     .. path /srv/www/openstack-dashboard/openstack_dashboard/local/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_HOST = "controller"

     .. end

   * Allow your hosts to access the dashboard:

     .. path /srv/www/openstack-dashboard/openstack_dashboard/local/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        ALLOWED_HOSTS = ['one.example.com', 'two.example.com']

     .. end

     .. note::

        ``ALLOWED_HOSTS`` can also be ``['*']`` to accept all hosts. This may be
        useful for development work, but is potentially insecure and should
        not be used in production. See `Django documentation
        <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/settings/#allowed-hosts>`_
        for further information.

   * Configure the ``memcached`` session storage service:

     .. path /srv/www/openstack-dashboard/openstack_dashboard/local/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        SESSION_ENGINE = 'django.contrib.sessions.backends.cache'

        CACHES = {
            'default': {
                 'BACKEND': 'django.core.cache.backends.memcached.MemcachedCache',
                 'LOCATION': 'controller:11211',
            }
        }

     .. end

     .. note::

        Comment out any other session storage configuration.

   * Enable the Identity API version 3:

     .. path /srv/www/openstack-dashboard/openstack_dashboard/local/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_URL = "http://%s/identity/v3" % OPENSTACK_HOST

     .. end

   * Enable support for domains:

     .. path /srv/www/openstack-dashboard/openstack_dashboard/local/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_MULTIDOMAIN_SUPPORT = True

     .. end

   * Configure API versions:

     .. path /srv/www/openstack-dashboard/openstack_dashboard/local/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_API_VERSIONS = {
            "identity": 3,
            "image": 2,
            "volume": 3,
        }

     .. end

   * Configure ``Default`` as the default domain for users that you create
     via the dashboard:

     .. path /srv/www/openstack-dashboard/openstack_dashboard/local/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_DEFAULT_DOMAIN = "Default"

     .. end

   * Configure ``user`` as the default role for
     users that you create via the dashboard:

     .. path /srv/www/openstack-dashboard/openstack_dashboard/local/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_DEFAULT_ROLE = "user"

     .. end

   * If you chose networking option 1, disable support for layer-3
     networking services:

     .. path /srv/www/openstack-dashboard/openstack_dashboard/local/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_NEUTRON_NETWORK = {
            ...
            'enable_router': False,
            'enable_quotas': False,
            'enable_distributed_router': False,
            'enable_ha_router': False,
            'enable_fip_topology_check': False,
        }

     .. end

   * Optionally, configure the time zone:

     .. path /srv/www/openstack-dashboard/openstack_dashboard/local/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        TIME_ZONE = "TIME_ZONE"

     .. end

     Replace ``TIME_ZONE`` with an appropriate time zone identifier.
     For more information, see the `list of time zones
     <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones>`__.




Finalize installation
---------------------



* Restart the web server and session storage service:

  .. code-block:: console

     # systemctl restart apache2.service memcached.service

  .. end

  .. note::

     The ``systemctl restart`` command starts each service if
     not currently running.

Commit message:

Add a Note Under Install and configure Section in documentation
This patch adds a note to use keystone port 5000 while configuring
horizon for all distros like ubuntu/debian/rdo/obs under the install
and configure section. Right now if a user tries to set up an OpenStack
env. manually using documentation [1], [2] leads to some confusion
because keystone documents suggest creating keystone endpoint at
http://controller:5000/v3/ rather than http://controller/v3/ while
horizon document consider keystone doesn't run at 5000 port updated
by [3].

Closes-Bug: #1910476
Closes-Bug: #1926096
Closes-Bug: #1950919
Closes-Bug: #1956437
Closes-Bug: #1892279
Closes-Bug: #1903320
Change-Id: I18d0d2105ea54ba02f8979ab7a15a75a0425b8c7

[1] https://docs.openstack.org/keystone/latest/install/keystone-install-ubuntu.html#install-and-configure-components
[2] https://docs.openstack.org/horizon/latest/install/install-ubuntu.html#install-and-configure-components
[3] https://review.opendev.org/c/openstack/horizon/+/697406

Change-Id: I537a963c9d955b8d7e21f0d05b0197588907419e

doc/source/install/install-obs.rst, after:

============================================================
Install and configure for openSUSE and SUSE Linux Enterprise
============================================================

This section describes how to install and configure the dashboard
on the controller node.

The only core service required by the dashboard is the Identity service.
You can use the dashboard in combination with other services, such as
Image service, Compute, and Networking. You can also use the dashboard
in environments with stand-alone services such as Object Storage.

.. note::

   This section assumes proper installation, configuration, and operation
   of the Identity service using the Apache HTTP server and Memcached
   service.

Install and configure components
--------------------------------

.. include:: note_configuration_vary_by_distribution.txt


1. Install the packages:

   .. code-block:: console

      # zypper install openstack-dashboard

   .. end






2. Configure the web server:

   .. code-block:: console

      # cp /etc/apache2/conf.d/openstack-dashboard.conf.sample \
        /etc/apache2/conf.d/openstack-dashboard.conf
      # a2enmod rewrite

   .. end

3. Edit the
   ``/srv/www/openstack-dashboard/openstack_dashboard/local/local_settings.py``
   file and complete the following actions:

   * Configure the dashboard to use OpenStack services on the
     ``controller`` node:

     .. path /srv/www/openstack-dashboard/openstack_dashboard/local/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_HOST = "controller"

     .. end

   * Allow your hosts to access the dashboard:

     .. path /srv/www/openstack-dashboard/openstack_dashboard/local/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        ALLOWED_HOSTS = ['one.example.com', 'two.example.com']

     .. end

     .. note::

        ``ALLOWED_HOSTS`` can also be ``['*']`` to accept all hosts. This may be
        useful for development work, but is potentially insecure and should
        not be used in production. See `Django documentation
        <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/settings/#allowed-hosts>`_
        for further information.

   * Configure the ``memcached`` session storage service:

     .. path /srv/www/openstack-dashboard/openstack_dashboard/local/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        SESSION_ENGINE = 'django.contrib.sessions.backends.cache'

        CACHES = {
            'default': {
                 'BACKEND': 'django.core.cache.backends.memcached.MemcachedCache',
                 'LOCATION': 'controller:11211',
            }
        }

     .. end

     .. note::

        Comment out any other session storage configuration.

   * Enable the Identity API version 3:

     .. path /srv/www/openstack-dashboard/openstack_dashboard/local/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_URL = "http://%s/identity/v3" % OPENSTACK_HOST

     .. end

     .. note::

        In case your keystone run at 5000 port then you would mentioned
        keystone port here as well i.e.
        OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_URL = "http://%s:5000/identity/v3" % OPENSTACK_HOST

   * Enable support for domains:

     .. path /srv/www/openstack-dashboard/openstack_dashboard/local/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_MULTIDOMAIN_SUPPORT = True

     .. end

   * Configure API versions:

     .. path /srv/www/openstack-dashboard/openstack_dashboard/local/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_API_VERSIONS = {
            "identity": 3,
            "image": 2,
            "volume": 3,
        }

     .. end

   * Configure ``Default`` as the default domain for users that you create
     via the dashboard:

     .. path /srv/www/openstack-dashboard/openstack_dashboard/local/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_DEFAULT_DOMAIN = "Default"

     .. end

   * Configure ``user`` as the default role for
     users that you create via the dashboard:

     .. path /srv/www/openstack-dashboard/openstack_dashboard/local/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_DEFAULT_ROLE = "user"

     .. end

   * If you chose networking option 1, disable support for layer-3
     networking services:

     .. path /srv/www/openstack-dashboard/openstack_dashboard/local/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_NEUTRON_NETWORK = {
            ...
            'enable_router': False,
            'enable_quotas': False,
            'enable_distributed_router': False,
            'enable_ha_router': False,
            'enable_fip_topology_check': False,
        }

     .. end

   * Optionally, configure the time zone:

     .. path /srv/www/openstack-dashboard/openstack_dashboard/local/local_settings.py
     .. code-block:: python

        TIME_ZONE = "TIME_ZONE"

     .. end

     Replace ``TIME_ZONE`` with an appropriate time zone identifier.
     For more information, see the `list of time zones
     <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones>`__.




Finalize installation
---------------------



* Restart the web server and session storage service:

  .. code-block:: console

     # systemctl restart apache2.service memcached.service

  .. end

  .. note::

     The ``systemctl restart`` command starts each service if
     not currently running.
