doc/source/install/install-rdo.rst, before:

=============================================================
Install and configure for Red Hat Enterprise Linux and CentOS
=============================================================

This section describes how to install and configure the dashboard
on the controller node.

The only core service required by the dashboard is the Identity service.
You can use the dashboard in combination with other services, such as
Image service, Compute, and Networking. You can also use the dashboard
in environments with stand-alone services such as Object Storage.

.. note::

   This section assumes proper installation, configuration, and operation
   of the Identity service using the Apache HTTP server and Memcached
   service.

Install and configure components
--------------------------------

.. include:: note_configuration_vary_by_distribution.txt



1. Install the packages:

   .. code-block:: console

      # yum install openstack-dashboard

   .. end






2. Edit the
   ``/etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings``
   file and complete the following actions:

   * Configure the dashboard to use OpenStack services on the
     ``controller`` node:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_HOST = "controller"

     .. end

   * Allow your hosts to access the dashboard:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings
     .. code-block:: python

        ALLOWED_HOSTS = ['one.example.com', 'two.example.com']

     .. end

     .. note::

        ALLOWED_HOSTS can also be ['*'] to accept all hosts. This may be
        useful for development work, but is potentially insecure and should
        not be used in production. See
        https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/settings/#allowed-hosts
        for further information.

   * Configure the ``memcached`` session storage service:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings
     .. code-block:: python

        SESSION_ENGINE = 'django.contrib.sessions.backends.cache'

        CACHES = {
            'default': {
                 'BACKEND': 'django.core.cache.backends.memcached.MemcachedCache',
                 'LOCATION': 'controller:11211',
            }
        }

     .. end

     .. note::

        Comment out any other session storage configuration.

   * Enable the Identity API version 3:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_URL = "http://%s:5000/v3" % OPENSTACK_HOST

     .. end

   * Enable support for domains:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_MULTIDOMAIN_SUPPORT = True

     .. end

   * Configure API versions:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_API_VERSIONS = {
            "identity": 3,
            "image": 2,
            "volume": 2,
        }

     .. end

   * Configure ``Default`` as the default domain for users that you create
     via the dashboard:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_DEFAULT_DOMAIN = "Default"

     .. end

   * Configure ``user`` as the default role for
     users that you create via the dashboard:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_DEFAULT_ROLE = "user"

     .. end

   * If you chose networking option 1, disable support for layer-3
     networking services:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_NEUTRON_NETWORK = {
            ...
            'enable_router': False,
            'enable_quotas': False,
            'enable_distributed_router': False,
            'enable_ha_router': False,
            'enable_lb': False,
            'enable_firewall': False,
            'enable_vpn': False,
            'enable_fip_topology_check': False,
        }

     .. end

   * Optionally, configure the time zone:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings
     .. code-block:: python

        TIME_ZONE = "TIME_ZONE"

     .. end

     Replace ``TIME_ZONE`` with an appropriate time zone identifier.
     For more information, see the `list of time zones
     <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones>`__.



Finalize installation
---------------------




* Restart the web server and session storage service:

  .. code-block:: console

     # systemctl restart httpd.service memcached.service

  .. end

  .. note::

     The ``systemctl restart`` command starts each service if
     not currently running.

Commit message:

Update RHEL/CentOS horizon install instruction
openstack-dashboard.conf in openstack-dashboard package
for RHEL/CentOS does not contain WSGIApplicationGroup configuration
which is required to make the dashboard work correctly.

Change-Id: Ic62fa29015ec153eada9d5e1ba5c06dab3a5eeca
Closes-Bug: #1741354
(cherry picked from commit a180bafb75cd7f2b6c1f1331d5e217229414a04b)

doc/source/install/install-rdo.rst, after:

=============================================================
Install and configure for Red Hat Enterprise Linux and CentOS
=============================================================

This section describes how to install and configure the dashboard
on the controller node.

The only core service required by the dashboard is the Identity service.
You can use the dashboard in combination with other services, such as
Image service, Compute, and Networking. You can also use the dashboard
in environments with stand-alone services such as Object Storage.

.. note::

   This section assumes proper installation, configuration, and operation
   of the Identity service using the Apache HTTP server and Memcached
   service.

Install and configure components
--------------------------------

.. include:: note_configuration_vary_by_distribution.txt



1. Install the packages:

   .. code-block:: console

      # yum install openstack-dashboard

   .. end






2. Edit the
   ``/etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings``
   file and complete the following actions:

   * Configure the dashboard to use OpenStack services on the
     ``controller`` node:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_HOST = "controller"

     .. end

   * Allow your hosts to access the dashboard:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings
     .. code-block:: python

        ALLOWED_HOSTS = ['one.example.com', 'two.example.com']

     .. end

     .. note::

        ALLOWED_HOSTS can also be ['*'] to accept all hosts. This may be
        useful for development work, but is potentially insecure and should
        not be used in production. See
        https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/settings/#allowed-hosts
        for further information.

   * Configure the ``memcached`` session storage service:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings
     .. code-block:: python

        SESSION_ENGINE = 'django.contrib.sessions.backends.cache'

        CACHES = {
            'default': {
                 'BACKEND': 'django.core.cache.backends.memcached.MemcachedCache',
                 'LOCATION': 'controller:11211',
            }
        }

     .. end

     .. note::

        Comment out any other session storage configuration.

   * Enable the Identity API version 3:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_URL = "http://%s:5000/v3" % OPENSTACK_HOST

     .. end

   * Enable support for domains:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_MULTIDOMAIN_SUPPORT = True

     .. end

   * Configure API versions:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_API_VERSIONS = {
            "identity": 3,
            "image": 2,
            "volume": 2,
        }

     .. end

   * Configure ``Default`` as the default domain for users that you create
     via the dashboard:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_DEFAULT_DOMAIN = "Default"

     .. end

   * Configure ``user`` as the default role for
     users that you create via the dashboard:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_DEFAULT_ROLE = "user"

     .. end

   * If you chose networking option 1, disable support for layer-3
     networking services:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings
     .. code-block:: python

        OPENSTACK_NEUTRON_NETWORK = {
            ...
            'enable_router': False,
            'enable_quotas': False,
            'enable_distributed_router': False,
            'enable_ha_router': False,
            'enable_lb': False,
            'enable_firewall': False,
            'enable_vpn': False,
            'enable_fip_topology_check': False,
        }

     .. end

   * Optionally, configure the time zone:

     .. path /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings
     .. code-block:: python

        TIME_ZONE = "TIME_ZONE"

     .. end

     Replace ``TIME_ZONE`` with an appropriate time zone identifier.
     For more information, see the `list of time zones
     <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones>`__.

3. Add the following line to
   ``/etc/httpd/conf.d/openstack-dashboard.conf`` if not included.

   .. code-block:: none

      WSGIApplicationGroup %{GLOBAL}

Finalize installation
---------------------




* Restart the web server and session storage service:

  .. code-block:: console

     # systemctl restart httpd.service memcached.service

  .. end

  .. note::

     The ``systemctl restart`` command starts each service if
     not currently running.
