doc/source/admin/index.rst, before:

====================
Administration Guide
====================

The OpenStack Dashboard is a web-based interface that allows you to
manage OpenStack resources and services. The Dashboard allows you to
interact with the OpenStack Compute cloud controller using the OpenStack
APIs. For more information about installing and configuring the
Dashboard, see the `Installation Tutorials and Guides
<https://docs.openstack.org/project-install-guide/ocata/>`__
for your operating system.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   customize-configure.rst
   sessions.rst
   manage-images.rst
   admin-manage-roles.rst
   manage-projects-and-users.rst
   manage-instances.rst
   manage-flavors.rst
   manage-volumes.rst
   manage-shares.rst
   set-quotas.rst
   manage-resources.rst
   manage-host-aggregates.rst
   admin-manage-stacks.rst

- To deploy the dashboard, see the `OpenStack dashboard documentation
  <https://docs.openstack.org/developer/horizon/topics/deployment.html>`__.
- To launch instances with the dashboard as an end user, see the
  `Launch and manage instances
  <https://docs.openstack.org/user-guide/launch-instances.html>`__.
  in the OpenStack End User Guide.
- To create and manage ports, see the `Create and manage networks
  <https://docs.openstack.org/user-guide/dashboard-create-networks.html#create-a-port>`__
  section of the OpenStack End User Guide.

Commit message:

Update the documentation link for doc migration
This commit updates links affected by doc migration.
Note that other links are not touched in this commit.
Fixing other broken links or changing http to https
should be covered by a separate patch.

Also convert http links to docs.openstack.org to https per reviewer
request (though it is not directly related to doc-migration).

Note that this commit does not touch files under releasenotes/notes/.
If we touch release notes in older releases, reno will considers
it as a release note in the current release.
(Pike release notes are clean up in a separate patch.)

Change-Id: Iba9bd465ef08014a4972584cf4da6e7d77961119

doc/source/admin/index.rst, after:

====================
Administration Guide
====================

The OpenStack Dashboard is a web-based interface that allows you to
manage OpenStack resources and services. The Dashboard allows you to
interact with the OpenStack Compute cloud controller using the OpenStack
APIs. For more information about installing and configuring the
Dashboard, see the :doc:`/install/index` for your operating system.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   customize-configure.rst
   sessions.rst
   manage-images.rst
   admin-manage-roles.rst
   manage-projects-and-users.rst
   manage-instances.rst
   manage-flavors.rst
   manage-volumes.rst
   manage-shares.rst
   set-quotas.rst
   manage-resources.rst
   manage-host-aggregates.rst
   admin-manage-stacks.rst

- To deploy the dashboard, see the :doc:`/install/index`.
- To launch instances with the dashboard as an end user, see the
  :doc:`/user/launch-instances` in the OpenStack End User Guide.
- To create and manage ports, see the :doc:`/user/create-networks`
  section of the OpenStack End User Guide.
